Well so far we've been dealing with objects here in Object mode.
But the real power comes when you begin modeling things in edit mode.
So if I go to Edit Mode down here I can see now the different components of the object.
You can see these buttons down here.
One is for selecting vertices one is for selecting edges and one is for selecting faces.
Now if I come up here with vertex selection on I can click on one of these points and select a vertex.
If I click on edges I can select an edge and if I click on faces I can select a face an easier way to
select between these I think is with the control tab key combination.
And when you hit control tab you get this mesh select mode menu so I can choose Virtex.
And now I can select vertices.
Now that I've got this selected I could press the G key and move it around like so I can use the manipulators
to move it around.
I could press control tab to go to the edge mode and move this around.
And you can begin modifying your object
now to get out of edit mode and back to object mode.
You could of course go from edit here to object but you can also use the tab key tab from edit mode
to object mode.
And then once again to switch from Edge mode to face mode you can hit control tab and then select face
and for each one of these components you can use the Move tool or the rotate tool or scale
and transforming the components of the object is very important.
But we're also going to need to be able to add new geometry to the objects to create whatever it is
we're going to create to add new geometry.
There are two tools I just want to mention here.
At this point and these two tools will get you up and running with modeling almost anything you can
imagine.
One is the extrude tool and the other is the insert edge loop tool for extrude.
Let's say I selected this face here and you can see over here in the Tools tab.
When I'm in edit mode I've got this extrude extrude region extrude individual and I can choose any of
those here but I can also hit the e key on the keyboard I think that's just easier.
E for extrude.
I'm going to hit that and that will allow you to then move the mouse and create new geometry off of
that selected face.
So when I click the left mouse button to confirm that operation.
And now I can use any one of my transform tools like hit the s key for scale or change to my rotate
manipulator and rotate it like this.
So with the key it's very easy to just add new geometry to your objects.
The other tool that's really important to get used to up front here is this loop cut and slide and the
shortcut key for that is control are.
So if I just wanted to extrude a small part of this face out I would need to actually insert an edge
here to create a new smaller face to be able to do that.
So if I press control are I can then hover over the object and see this kind of preview of where the
new edge is going to go.
If I hover over here and click once I can now insert that edge there and I can move the mouse around
and drag it where I want it to go so say I want that edge to be right about here and I can click again.
Now I've inserted a new edge here to create a new face.
I'm going to press control tab to go to face mode and select that face.
Now then I can hit the e key and extrude that out.
So the insert edge loop tool allows you to create new edges which allows you to create new faces that
you can then can extrude out of the object.
So now I can hit the scale key and scale that end so I can go to the move manipulator tool and move
that a bit
so right up front.
Those are the tools that we're going to be using to begin modeling Arsene.
So in the next video that's exactly what we'll do.
I think I'd like to begin modeling the Mac.